You ask, some degree, maybe it was repressed about knowledge, understanding, some degree.
So that's really my wish, and that's what I'm again going to talk about.
Again, the entire teachings are always, as the lineage said, kind of put them in three categories,
beginning, middle, and concluding. And that's how we do the practice.
And really, it's not something newly making, something new systems.
Whatever we do, there's always beginning, and then always we do that,
with that beginning, and then we completed that whatever.
So this is, that means the whole body or that session is completed beautifully, perfectly.
This time is dharma, dharma or practice that's beautiful.
That means dharma is not outside, as we discussed.
Dharma is totally connected with our mind, mind.
And mind has so many different things that we mentioned, and you all know.
What are so many different things?
Those among those old things summarize into, again, great master,
Buddha may summarize into three categories, those old, the good thought, bad thought, neutral
thoughts.
So those are the really thoughts. And dharma practices me, practices of the good thoughts.
Activating our good thoughts, that means my good thoughts, your good thoughts, your activity.
We are activating. That is really dharma, good.
And for that reason, what in the teaching said, what made dharma in the debate?
Dharma translated, you know, those great, translated as true in the teaching.
What made true in the teaching? Always true means correcting.
Correcting from what?
Because due to our happiness, we always go with some degree of the emotional thoughts.
Maybe I won't use the word negative thoughts, but we always go with emotional thoughts.
And then maybe we go occasionally neutral thoughts.
There is really every count, the percentage of the positive thoughts, how much we are using in the
one day,
time we wake up until we go to fall asleep, how much with every thought.
Most of the time is some degree of the emotions, related with past, present, or future plans, or
whatever.
It's all that is. There is neutral. What means neutral? Neither is positive nor negative.
There is just a small amount, maybe. Mostly that.
So this time we try to change at that, called positives, positive thoughts.
That's what we need to practice.
And then as I said so many times, we all know correct the motivation.
So I say that, I'm saying that to myself too. We all say this correct the motivation to the good
positive thoughts.
Those are our joy, appreciation, being grateful.
And then combined we do both each other, loving kindness, compassion, thoughts, we do devotions.
Those are all positive thoughts.
It is good for us. When we have those thoughts, it's really healing.
If we have the stress for thought, it will reduce all the stress.
It will heal, heal those things.
And all the emotions that we have, kind of like that, can happen, it really will heal.
So therefore have those good thoughts.
So that is what the beginning, the beginning, middle of practice is.
That's it.
What is the teaching of princess?
We have those, such as thought of polynomial second thoughts.
And then we did devotions of faith, F-A-I-T, I believe, faith or devotions.
And then both each other.
Really think, from deep down heart, for all living beings, those are good thoughts.
With that attitude and intention, then do some prayers.
Such as we do prayers, seven-line prayers, lineage prayers.
And then also maybe you have some others, too.
Those really kind of reflecting mind with those, and the giant thing, those slowly.
What your giant thing is your same or your giant thing of your intention, our intentions.
One way, we activate in that way. Activate with pure presence, the blessings of the Buddhas,
some of all enlightenment, lineage masters, we join them.
So that is really of the first section of that.
Now the middle section of the practices.
In this case, for example, zoki meditations.
Zoki meditation.
Again, for this zoki meditation, now you said on the nice question,
that is, we discuss in all that cushion, or sitting on a chair, we comfortably, perfectly, and
build tools.
And then, again, visualize, lineage masters, right in front of the sky.
All your root teaching appears in the form of the Gharapam Masambhava, right in front of the sky.
Your root teacher, who appears in the form of Gharapam Masambhava,
this Gharapam Masambhava also embodiment all enlightenment.
That what you recognize is embodiment all the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and the Sangha members,
and the Dharmas, everything really appear in the form of the Gharapam Masambhava stone.
That Gharapam Masambhava is also embodiment of all the lineage masters, lineage masters.
A regular zoki lineage masters, who are, who brought zoki teaching to Tibet, that what we are
discussing,
is brought by great master, Gharapam Masambhava and the Vamal Mataras, and the Vero Chana.
So see, Gharapam Masambhava, when you visualize that, see,
Gharapam Masambhava is embodiment of the Vamal Matara and the Vero Chana, and all the masters.
Really strong devotions, immense devotions, joy and appreciations.
And if you like to do again, seven-line prayers, do that.
And otherwise, also you can do, as we chant.
The precious teacher, Sun Sanghing, or Lama Ram,
the precious teacher, please consider me, consider me.
That you, that you need towards your love. May my, please bless me, that my mind is mature and
liberated.
That means what? Mature instead of joy and devotions, loving kindness, and bodhicittas.
Really so warm, so calm, because of that, then I liberated.
What do you, we liberated. Liberating of all the attachments, grasping, clinging.
I have used the word, all that poisons, naked videos, we are releasing them.
That also indicated that we are completely bonded with the emotions.
We are completely kind of tied up with the emotions.
And now we are asked to release. Please help me to, liberated that.
May my mind, mind is mature and liberated from all the negativity, attention, thoughts, and
happiness.
Then next one, why? We have that praise in the Open Prayer Populators.
I'm just roughly translating that, you know, as that.
And may I have the profound realization, or bless me,
that may have the profound realization is born in my heart.
That means not, it's not something born. It's already here, but discovered.
It's profound realization of the naked awareness, primordial wisdom.
May, really, that is. And then you're making, again, strongly more.
And within this light, please bless me, within this light,
may I reach a clear light in the ministry status.
That means, discover fully, our primordial wisdom,
or Raghma, ramsan, muhishi, sadhgum, evanus.
We see that strongly, and I think that using the word,
with the presence of the Gurbam Masambha,
which is representing all the masses in the Buddha, Dharma, Sanghams,
strongly, the value of Jaini, what we are Jaini, from Gurbam Masambha,
I'm adding so many wisdom lights to you, and to all the beings.
Finally, Gurbam Masambha is overly joy, and excited,
with the granting of that bless, what we will of course receive,
and it is all into the light.
And the light has multiple lights, of the like sphere of multiple lights.
Small sight as P, P-E-A, peace.
And then merge to one's own heart.
Merge to one's own heart to our primordial wisdom,
to our Raghma, ramsan, muhishi.
It merge to our own primordial wisdom of Raghma, ramsan, muhishi, or Raghma.
Raghma, raghma.
Now, we are going to meditate.
Now, the meditation is nothing, effort meditation, it's relaxing.
As we discussed in the Dokki teaching,
these days, and you know,
we have the, now what we are going to do?
We are going to maintain our will, with the confidence.
Will, will of the rupa, will of the rupa,
with beholding the will of one's own and in the rupa.
We are going to now maintain.
How are we going to maintain that?
Really, those three immovable, I mentioned,
in the Dokki teaching, or the Dokki teaching,
and all men got the teaching.
It's really in the teaching strongly suggested
by Ganesha, Ganesha's teacher, Munchipas.
These three immovable, three immovable,
immovable of the body, immovable of the senses,
immovable of the mind.
We went through those.
Now, with that immovable techniques,
we're going to relax our own,
promote you, stage or rupa stage, rupa stage.
Rupa stage without any trying to do something.
Relax.
Whatever arising, whatever thought came,
and not investigating n.i.a thoughts.
Also, same time, not wishing, or wishing something,
or not wishing.
That's what in the teaching often said.
Carefree.
Carefree without distracted.
What means distracted?
Distracted by the conceptions.
Conservancy arising due to the external objects,
as conditions, and then arising.
All conservancy arising due to our memories, whatever.
We're not going to chasing, pause.
Talk.
Let it come, let it go, in the teaching said.
And as well as oral instructions.
Why is letting come?
Generally in the teaching, Dokki teaching said,
thought is display of the Dharmakaya.
And we didn't grasp me, clingy.
Clingy, it is already Dharmakaya states.
As we used example yesterday or the day.
When thought comes, it's for example,
ocean waves and tides is nothing changed
from the ocean.
It is all ocean, part of the ocean.
Thought is in likeness status.
Therefore, in the meditation,
often I'm sure you heard,
nay, du, reksan, neva, duva, rupa,
abiding, movement, and seeing.
These three are already in the Dharmakaya status.
We're not trying to sort out this or I like only abiding.
I don't like the movement.
This is all playing.
Dharmakaya, sampokaya, namakaya status already.
So therefore, we at the beginning of the Hiamada meditation,
we need more abiding.
But when you reach to the cruise level of the Dzogchen or rupa status,
all is same place, one taste, one nature, relaxing.
Occasionally during that time in the teachings,
bring up Okegal for a few seconds,
more each other.
Low mankind is competing with all the sentient beings.
To activate those you can chide,
may all living beings have a cause of happiness.
Really sincerely saying that.
When you say that word, where it comes from?
Again from rupa.
Pure awareness of rupa, ramsang, yishin.
And where that happening?
Play it.
In the rupa status.
Where is the word going?
Rupa status.
So does that word,
reflective those meaning for a few seconds
and let it again be in the natural state.
Again not taking too much.
And Okegal anything of more devotions?
Thankful.
To the lineage.
Thankful all the great masters.
Thankful to Buddha, Maripim Masambok.
Great Master Ramal Matara and Vero Khyana.
They brought this teaching board
to debate and lineage Master Khyana.
Actually how grateful today I can connect.
Today I can connect through that teaching
as condition to my own true beings or the rupa.
How wonderful.
How grateful.
Again take those two seconds.
And again let that merge.
Back or liberate it to the rupa status.
Rupa status.
So whatever called arising,
whatever happening,
play the liberating techniques.
Liberate it as is arising.
And also in the Dokji teachings
the practitioners can have emotions too.
Such as even those arising not holding.
Arising but see the emotions.
Arise the emotions.
Catch that with awareness and that release.
Release or liberate.
Free.
Then in the teachings they said when you have that
even these emotions arise
but it won't create the karma.
Because this karma has no action.
It's nothing really happened.
It will.
No karma.
Emotional.
Karma obscuration as we discussed yesterday.
That won't happen in the teachings.
So let it go.
Let it come.
It's expiration of the rupas.
A continually relaxing death status.
So that is like the Dooda Dokji meditations.
Three immobile way techniques.
Once that is completed
then the kankaluri practices
as everyone, all the practitioners.
Then kankaluri that with great aspirations
and a dedication.
That means once again we evoke the mood each other.
Thinking of all sentient beings.
Whatever merit we gain through this practice
made that benefit for all living beings.
To every living being.
Made not just benefit that become the
igniting cause.
Cause to ignite their primordial verse
so that everyone reach enlightenment.
Enlighten, get enlightened.
And through that all the samsara cues
that will be completely transformed
into three gayas.
Already then wake up three gayas.
Really wishing that.
Concluding that break with aspiration
and all the other dedication.
Dedicated merit practices that you know.
Dedicated merit.
And then that.
That's the really Dokji meditations.
And now when you meditate that.
And carry this also.
That meditation move into the world.
To the post meditation.
Those are known as liberating.
Liberating.
And not holding.
Same thing during the meditation.
We didn't hold.
And we need to connect to the world.
And all the different.
Now there is so many conditions and circumstances.
Really arising our habit patterns of the emotions.
These and that things.
But even those are arising.
Trying to catch that by our mindfulness.
And release.
And change that attitude.
With both each other.
Love and kindness.
Completion.
Or reminder of our both each other.
Love and compassion.
So that we can activate our.
Our six paramata practices.
And accumulate the merits.
Really gain that.
So with the mindfulness.
Move to the samsara.
And be then.
One of the very beautiful.
Three wheelies.
Or.
Or the palace.
Practitioners.
That who carry in the samsara.
And doing all good things.
And the same time is not affected us.
Also other teaching said.
So that is my brief talk for today.
And also I'm summarizing.
That we have come at.
That we summarize.
And thank you very much again.
For participating.
Everyone.
Thank you very much.
As I said.
Good time to discuss in the teaching.
And the practices.
Thank you everyone.
And of course we do now.
The.
What's called.
Concluding.
Practices.
And all that.
So therefore.
We're going to do.
A little bit.
And every again in the teaching.
And you can do.
You can do.
This kind of.
Offering.
Is really.
Very good.
To.
A very good.
Very true.
To.
Concluding.
The.
Good.
Good merit.
Is.
Then dedicated.
So we do.
Let it.
Concluding practices.
We have problems.
People stay.
With us.
With.
Concluding that.
I just like to say.
Thank you very much.
Everyone.
And also thank you very much.
that we can do this Zoom or this broadcast things.
Again, all the help and support of the Sangha members,
we really met this valuable so that we can connect it
through this Zoom levels.
I'm so thankful, so grateful.
And also our local Sangha member, resident Sangha member,
will be helping support with this place where we stay.
And it's called Pemasamyal and so we are thankful, so grateful.
This becomes one of the really beautiful retreat lands
of the Buddha Dharma.
And I'm very thankful to all the people who are helping,
supporting directly, indirectly, and closely, and finally.
And so I'm so thankful.
Thank you very much, everyone.
And I wish you all the best and good help.
Good help, every goodness.
And also, please, since we all connected and therefore,
I would like to encourage everyone really keep the practice
and meditate as much as you can.
Yes, for one week sessions or that, but try to keep that.
And as well as you receive the teaching from all the great Masters
of your teachers, put that together and keep the practice there.
And then it is so good, really good for you
and good for everyone.
Thank you again.
Thank you.
Now we do, as I say, the short song of praise
In order to do that, what do we do?
We're going to try again in several--